---
layout: default
title: Bash
category: bash
---

### How can I fix a locale warning from perl

Add the following lines to your bashrc or bash_profile on the host machine:

>perl: warning: Setting locale failed.
>perl: warning: Please check that your locale settings:
>    LANGUAGE = (unset),
>    LC_ALL = (unset),
>    LANG = "en_US.UTF-8"
>are supported and installed on your system.
>perl: warning: Falling back to the standard locale ("C").

If you are using bash, edit .bash_profile:

	export LC_CTYPE=en_US.UTF-8
	export LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8

If you are using zsh, edit zshrc:

	LC_CTYPE=en_US.UTF-8
	LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8

[How can I fix a locale warning from perl](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2499794/how-can-i-fix-a-locale-warning-from-perl)

### .bash_profile

		export JAVA_HOME=$(/usr/libexec/java_home)
		export ANT_HOME=/Users/xxx/ant
		export MVN_HOME=/Users/xxx/maven
		export PATH=$PATH:$JAVA_HOME/bin
		export PATH=$PATH:$ANT_HOME/bin
		export PATH=$PATH:$MVN_HOME/bin
		export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/mysql/bin


		alias sublime="/Applications/Sublime\ Text.app/Contents/SharedSupport/bin/subl"

		function parse_git_branch {
		    git branch --no-color 2> /dev/null | sed -e '/^[^*]/d' -e 's/* \(.*\)/(\1)/' -e 's/((/(/' -e 's/))/)/'
		}
		export PS1="\u$white $yellow\w"$red'$(parse_git_branch)'"\[\e[1;30m\] $normal\$ "



### copy to clipboard

		pbcopy < ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub


### set

	set -e

	set +e

Exit immediately if a simple command exits with a non-zero status.

Unless the command that fails is part of an until or while loop, part of an if statement, part of a && or || list, or if the command's return status is being inverted using !.

A trap on ERR, if set, is executed before the shell exits.

[The Set Builtin](http://www.faqs.org/docs/bashman/bashref_56.html)


### umask

To view your current umask setting, open a terminal and run the command:

	umask

To change the umask setting of the current shell to something else, say 077, run:

	umask 077


A umask of 000 will make newly created directories readable, writable and descendible for everyone (the permissions will be 777). Such a umask is highly insecure and you should never set the umask to 000.

The default umask on Ubuntu is 022 which means that newly created files are readable by everyone, but only writable by the owner:

[umask](http://askubuntu.com/questions/44542/what-is-umask-and-how-does-it-work)


### pstree

For group of threads, pstree use n*[{name}]:

Child threads of a process are found under the parent process and are shown with the process name in curly braces, e.g.

       icecast2---13*[{icecast2}]

The mistake was to presume those numbers were PIDS, when in fact they are TIDS (thread IDs). See Linux function gettid(2). Reading up on clone(2) gives a lot of extra (and interesting) details.

use command "pstree -a" to see the different.

pstree 27108

Script.sh---java---15*[{java}]

the process 27108 was started by the script Script.sh. The Script.sh created a java process which spawned another 15 java threads.

A ps -eLf | grep java | wc -l


[](http://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/166207/the-program-pstree-and-htop-showing-threads-with-unique-pids-how-is-this-possib)
[pstree Command Examples](http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/unix-linux-pstree-command-examples-shows-running-processestree/)

### trash

	brew install trash

