---
layout: post
title: Git
category: git
---


[Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/git/)

### git templates warning

    warning: templates not found /usr/local/git/share/git-core/templates

This was bugging me for ages, although it didn't seem to affect the speed with which I could clone repos. 

Anyway, I fixed it by adding the [init] section to `.gitconfig` in my home directory, so that it looked at SourceTree's git templates directory when cloning a repo:

```
[init]
  templatedir = /Applications/SourceTree.app/Contents/Resources/git_local/share/git-core/templates
```

[sourcetree templates](https://answers.atlassian.com/questions/250260/about-git-path-for-sourcetree?continue=https%3A%2F%2Fanswers.atlassian.com%2Fquestions%2F250260%2Fabout-git-path-for-sourcetree&application=acac)

### git init

    git init


Transform the current directory into a Git repository.


This adds a .git folder to the current directory and makes it possible to start recording revisions of the project.


### git clone

    git clone <repo> <directory>


As a convenience, cloning automatically creates **a remote connection** called **origin** pointing back to the original repository. This makes it very easy to interact with a **central repository**.


### Repo-To-Repo Collaboration

Whereas SVN depends on the relationship between the central repository and the working copy, Git’s collaboration model is based on repository-to-repository interaction. Instead of checking a **working copy** into SVN’s central repository, you push or pull *commits* from one repository to another.

    git clone ssh://john@example.com/path/to/my-project.git 


### git config

    git config --global --edit
  

Open the global configuration file in a text editor for manual editing.


Git stores configuration options in three separate files, which lets you scope options to individual repositories, users, or the entire system:

 *  <repo>/.git/config – **Repository**-specific settings.
 *  ~/.gitconfig – **User**-specific settings. This is where options set with the --global flag are stored.
 *  /etc/gitconfig – **System**-wide settings.


    git config --global user.name <name>
    git config --global user.email <email>

    # Select your favorite text editor
    git config --global core.editor vim
    git config --global push.default simple

### Saving changes

    git add

The `git add` command adds a change in the **working directory** to the **staging area**. It tells Git that you want to include updates to a particular file in the next commit. However, `git add` doesn't really affect the **repository** in any significant way—changes are not actually recorded until you run `git commit`.

In conjunction with these commands, you'll also need `git status` to view the state of **the working directory and the staging area**.


    git add <file>

 Stage **all changes in file** for the next commit.


 The above commands can also be used to record changes to existing files. Again, Git doesn’t differentiate between staging **changes in new files** vs. **changes in files** that have already been added to the repository.


    git add <directory>
    git add .

Stage all changes in directory for the next commit.

    git add -p

Begin an interactive staging session that lets you choose portions of a file to add to the next commit. This will present you with a chunk of changes and prompt you for a command. Use y to stage the chunk, n to ignore the chunk, s to split it into smaller chunks, e to manually edit the chunk, and q to exit.


Developing a project revolves around the basic **edit/stage/commit pattern**. First, you edit your files in the **working directory**. When you’re ready to save a copy of **the current state of the project**, you **stage changes** with `git add`. After you’re happy with the staged snapshot, you **commit it to the project history** with `git commit`.


The `git add` command should not be confused with `svn add`, which adds a file to the repository. Instead, `git add` works on the more abstract level of **changes**. This means that `git add` needs to be called every time you alter a file, whereas `svn add` only needs to be called once for each file.


### The Staging Area

The staging area is one of Git's more unique features, and it can take some time to wrap your head around it if you’re coming from an SVN (or even a Mercurial) background. It helps to think of it as **a buffer between the working directory and the project history**.


Instead of committing all of the changes you've made since the last commit, the stage lets you **group related changes** into highly focused snapshots before actually committing it to the project history. This means you can make all sorts of edits to unrelated files, then go back and **split them up into logical commits by adding related changes to the stage and commit them piece-by-piece**. As in any revision control system, it’s important to create **atomic commits** so that it’s easy to track down bugs and revert changes with minimal impact on the rest of the project.


    git commit
    git commit -m "message"

The git commit command commits the **staged snapshot** to the **project history**. **Committed snapshots can be thought of as “safe” versions of a project**—Git will never change them unless you explicity ask it to.

Snapshots are committed to the local repository, and this requires absolutely no interaction with other Git repositories.


    git commit -a

Commit a snapshot of **all changes in the working directory**. This only includes modifications to tracked files (those that have been added with git add at some point in their history).


Just as the staging area is a buffer between the working directory and the project history, each developer’s local repository is a buffer between their contributions and the central repository.


 It makes it easier to split up a feature into atomic commits, keep related commits grouped together, and clean up local history before publishing it to the central repository.


Git doesn't require commit messages to follow any specific formatting constraints, but the canonical format is to summarize the entire commit on the first line in less than 50 characters, leave a blank line, then a detailed explanation of what’s been changed.

    git status

List which files are staged, unstaged, and untracked.  
The git status command displays the state of the working directory and the staging area. It lets you see which changes have been staged, which haven’t, and which files aren’t being tracked by Git. Status output does not show you any information regarding the committed project history. For this, you need to use git log.

```java
# On branch master
# Changes to be committed:
# (use "git reset HEAD <file>..." to unstage)
#
#modified: hello.py
#
# Changes not staged for commit:
# (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
# (use "git checkout -- <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
#
#modified: main.py
#
# Untracked files:
# (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)
#
#hello.pyc
```

### Ignoring Files

Git lets you completely ignore files by placing paths in a special file called .gitignore. Any files that you'd like to ignore should be included on a separate line, and the * symbol can be used as a wildcard. For example, adding the following to a .gitignore file in your project root will prevent compiled Python modules from appearing in git status:

*.pyc


    git log

While git status lets you inspect the working directory and the staging area, git log only operates on the committed history.

    git log -n limit
    
    git log --oneline

    git log --stat
    
    git log since..until

    git log --graph --decorate --oneline



Condense each commit to a single line. 

### HEAD

HEAD always refers to the current commit, be it a branch or a specific commit.

The ~ character is useful for making relative references to the parent of a commit. For example, 3157e~1 refers to the commit before 3157e, and HEAD~3 is the great-grandparent of the current commit.


    git log --author="John Smith" -p hello.py

This will display a full diff of all the changes John Smith has made to the file hello.py.

The .. syntax is a very useful tool for comparing branches. The next example displays a brief overview of all the commits that are in some-feature that are not in master.

    git log --oneline master..some-feature


### Resolving a merge conflict

You'll delete the conflict markers, You can now git add this file, commit the change with a new commit message, and be on your way.

    git add README.md
    git commit

    git rm README.md
    git commit

    git show | head


[merge conflicts in git](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/161813/fix-merge-conflicts-in-git)


### git checkout

The git checkout command serves three distinct functions: checking out files, checking out commits, and checking out branches. 

    git checkout master
    
    git checkout <commit>

    git checkout <commit> <file>

    git checkout -- <file>

Check out a previous version of a file. This turns the file that resides in the working directory into an exact copy of the one from `commit` and adds it to the staging area.


### git reset

    git reset <file>

Remove the specified file from the staging area, but leave the working directory unchanged. 

    git reset

Reset the staging area to match the most recent commit, but leave the working directory unchanged. This unstages all files without overwriting any changes, giving you the opportunity to re-build the staged snapshot from scratch.

    git reset --hard

Reset the staging area and the working directory to match the most recent commit. In addition to unstaging changes, the --hard flag tells Git to overwrite all changes in the working directory, too. Put another way: this obliterates all uncommitted changes, so make sure you really want to throw away your local developments before using it.


Whereas reverting is designed to safely undo a public commit, git reset is designed to undo local changes. Because of their distinct goals, the two commands are implemented differently: resetting completely removes a changeset, whereas reverting maintains the original changeset and uses a new commit to apply the undo.

    git reset --hard HEAD~2

The git reset HEAD~2 command moves the current branch backward by two commits, effectively removing the two snapshots we just created from the project history.


### git clean

    git clean

The git clean command removes untracked files from your working directory.


The git clean command is often executed in conjunction with git reset --hard. Remember that resetting only affects tracked files, so a separate command is required for cleaning up untracked ones. Combined, these two commands let you return the working directory to the exact state of a particular commit.

    git clean -n

The git reset --hard and git clean -f commands are your best friends after you’ve made some embarrassing developments in your local repository and want to burn the evidence. Running both of them will make your working directory match the most recent commit, giving you a clean slate to work with.
slate to work with.

### git commit --amend

The git commit --amend command is a convenient way to fix up the most recent commit. It lets you combine staged changes with the previous commit instead of committing it as an entirely new snapshot. It can also be used to simply edit the previous commit message without changing its snapshot.

But, amending doesn’t just alter the most recent commit—it replaces it entirely. To Git, it will look like a brand new commit, which is visualized with an asterisk (*) in the diagram above. It’s important to keep this in mind when working with public repositories.

Never amend commits that have been pushed to a public repository.

Amended commits are actually entirely new commits, and the previous commit is removed from the project history.


### git rebase

Don’t Rebase Public History


### git reflog

Git keeps track of updates to the tip of branches using a mechanism called reflog.

To understand git reflog, let's run through an example.

> 0a2e358 HEAD@{0}: reset: moving to HEAD~2
> 0254ea7 HEAD@{1}: checkout: moving from 2.2 to master
> c10f740 HEAD@{2}: checkout: moving from master to 2.2

The reflog above shows a checkout from master to the 2.2 branch and back. From there, there's a hard reset to an older commit. The latest activity is represented at the top labeled HEAD@{0}.

### Synching

Git lets you share entire branches between repositories.

The commands presented below let you manage connections with other repositories, publish local history by “pushing” branches to other repositories, and see what others have contributed by “pulling” branches into your local repository.

### git remote

Instead, developers need to manually pull upstream commits into their local repository or manually push their local commits back up to the central repository. The git remote command is really just an easier way to pass URLs to these “sharing” commands.

### The origin Remote

When you clone a repository with git clone, it automatically creates a remote connection called origin pointing back to the cloned repository. This is useful for developers creating a local copy of a central repository, since it provides an easy way to pull upstream changes or publish local commits. This behavior is also why most Git-based projects call their central repository origin.

### git fetch

The git fetch command imports commits from a remote repository into your local repo. The resulting commits are **stored as remote branches** instead of the normal local branches that we’ve been working with. This gives you a chance to review changes before integrating them into your copy of the project.

You can think of them as read-only branches. To view your remote branches, simply pass the -r flag to the git branch command. Remote branches are prefixed by the remote they belong to so that you don’t mix them up with local branches.


### git push

    git push origin master

Git prevents you from overwriting the central repository’s history by refusing push requests when they result in a non-fast-forward merge. So, if the remote history has diverged from your history, you need to pull the remote branch and merge it into your local one, then try pushing again. This is similar to how SVN makes you synchronize with the central repository via svn update before committing a changeset.


    git checkout master
    git fetch origin master
    git rebase -i origin/master
    # Squash commits, fix up commit messages etc.
    git push origin master


The following example describes one of the standard methods for publishing local contributions to the central repository. First, it makes sure your local master is up-to-date by fetching the central repository’s copy and rebasing your changes on top of them. The interactive rebase is also a good opportunity to clean up your commits before sharing them. Then, the git push command sends all of the commits on your local master to the central repository.


### Pull Request

    git clone 

    git checkout -b some-feature
    # Edit some code
    git commit -a -m "Add first draft of some feature"

    git push origin some-branch

Mary wants to merge her feature into the main codebase, so the source branch is her feature branch, the destination repository is John’s public repository, and the destination branch is master. 


To correct the error, Mary adds another commit to her feature branch and pushes it to her Bitbucket repository, just like she did the first time around. This commit is automatically added to the original pull request, and John can review the changes again, right next to his original comment.

### Using Branches


    git branch


The git branch command lets you create, list, rename, and delete branches. It doesn’t let you switch between branches or put a forked history back together again. For this reason, git branch is tightly integrated with the git checkout and git merge commands.


    git branch <branch>

Create a new branch called  branch. This does not check out the new branch.

    git branch -d <branch>

Delete the specified branch. This is a “safe” operation in that Git prevents you from deleting the branch if it has unmerged changes.

    git branch -D <branch>

Force delete the specified branch, even if it has unmerged changes. 

    git branch -m <branch>

Rename the current branch to branch.


In Git, branches are a part of your everyday development process. When you want to add a new feature or fix a bug—no matter how big or how small—you spawn a new branch to encapsulate your changes. This makes sure that unstable code is never committed to the main code base, and it gives you the chance to clean up your feature’s history before merging it into the main branch.


The implementation behind Git branches is much more lightweight than SVN’s model. Instead of copying files from directory to directory, Git stores a branch as a reference to a commit. In this sense, a branch represents the tip of a series of commits—it's not a container for commits. The history for a branch is extrapolated through the commit relationships.


You can actually see merges in the project history as a joining of two independent commit histories.


It's important to understand that branches are just pointers to commits.

To start adding commits to it, you need to select it with git checkout, and then use the standard git add and git commit commands.


Once you’ve finished working on a branch and have merged it into the main code base, you’re free to delete the branch without losing any history:

    git branch -d crazy-experiment


The git checkout command lets you navigate between the branches created by git branch. Checking out a branch updates the files in the working directory to match the version stored in that branch, and it tells Git to record all new commits on that branch. Think of it as a way to select which line of development you’re working on.


    git checkout <existing-branch>

Check out the specified branch, which should have already been created with git branch. This makes `existing-branch` the current branch, and updates the working directory to match.

    git checkout -b <new-branch>

Create and check out `new-branch`. The -b option is a convenience flag that tells Git to run git branch `new-branch` before running git checkout `new-branch`. 

    git checkout -b <new-branch> <existing-branch>

Same as the above invocation, but base the new branch off of `existing-branch` instead of the current branch.


git checkout works hand-in-hand with git branch. When you want to start a new feature, you create a branch with git branch, then check it out with git checkout. You can work on multiple features in a single repository by switching between them with git checkout.


Remember that the HEAD is Git’s way of referring to the current snapshot. Internally, the git checkout command simply updates the HEAD to point to either the specified branch or commit. When it points to a branch, Git doesn't complain, but when you check out a commit, it switches into a “detached HEAD” state.


The point is, your development should always take place on a branch—never on a detached HEAD. This makes sure you always have a reference to your new commits. However, if you’re just looking at an old commit, it doesn’t really matter if you’re in a detached HEAD state or not.


Note that all of the commands presented below merge into the current branch. The current branch will be updated to reflect the merge, but the target branch will be completely unaffected. Again, this means that git merge is often used in conjunction with git checkout for selecting the current branch and git branch -d for deleting the obsolete target branch.


    git merge <branch>

Merge the specified branch into the current branch. 

    git merge --no-ff <branch>

Merge the specified branch into the current branch, but always generate a merge commit (even if it was a fast-forward merge). This is useful for documenting all merges that occur in your repository.


While you can use either of these merge strategies, many developers like to use fast-forward merges (facilitated through rebasing) for small features or bug fixes, while reserving 3-way merges for the integration of longer-running features. In the latter case, the resulting merge commit serves as a symbolic joining of the two branches.


The great part of Git's merging process is that it uses the familiar edit/stage/commit workflow to resolve merge conflicts. When you encounter a merge conflict, running the git status command shows you which files need to be resolved. For example, if both branches modified the same section of hello.py, you would see something like the following:

```
# On branch master
# Unmerged paths:
# (use "git add/rm ..." as appropriate to mark resolution)
#
# both modified: hello.py
#
```

Then, you can go in and fix up the merge to your liking. When you're ready to finish the merge, all you have to do is run git add on the conflicted file(s) to tell Git they're resolved. Then, you run a normal git commit to generate the merge commit.

Note that merge conflicts will only occur in the event of a 3-way merge. It’s not possible to have conflicting changes in a fast-forward merge.

### SourceTree

[Git and Github basic with SourceTree](http://www.slideshare.net/freezejonny/git-and-github-basic-with-sourcetree?qid=df57b7e8-92a3-4644-88c0-3d16552d0150&v=qf1&b=&from_search=6)  
[SourceTree Tutorial](http://www.bogotobogo.com/cplusplus/Git/Git_GitHub_Source_Tree_2_Branching_Merging.php)  
[Differ Merge](http://oliverbusse.notesx.net/hp.nsf/tutorial.xsp?documentId=C6A)  
[Differ Merge Tool](http://www.scootersoftware.com/vbulletin/showthread.php?11695-SourceTree-configuration)

### DiffMerge

setup command:

    sudo cp Extras/diffmerge.sh /usr/bin/diffmerge
    sudo chmod 755 /usr/bin/diffmerge
    sudo cp Extras/diffmerge.1 /usr/share/man/man1/diffmerge.1
    sudo chmod 644 /usr/share/man/man1/diffmerge.1

Edit /usr/bin/diffmerge, add & :
exec ${DIFFMERGE_EXE} --nosplash "$@" &

Bold Underlined Text is use to indicate edited text
An Edited Line Indicator (*) is drawn in the line number area for edited lines
A Void is drawn using a shaded, diagonal hatch pattern to indicate missing lines. This is shown in Showing Changes.
Changes are drawn in color. 
• Black bars are drawn on the sides of the glance bar to show the current scroll position of the files.
• As the mouse moves over the Glance Bar, the corresponding line numbers from the files are shown in the Status Bar. A star * is used when the corresponding line is a Void.
• You may click on the glance bar to scroll the file panels to that position.
The Edit View is an interactive editor and live difference viewer. It enables you to make changes to the center panel in a File Merge Window and the right panel in a File Diff Window. As you edit, your changes are highlighted, the files are re-compared in real-time, and their changes are displayed.
The Active Ruleset Indicator shows the current Ruleset in use in this window. The Ruleset provides customizable rules for comparing and displaying file content (such as whitespace handling and character encodings) that are based upon file type.
Generally, the Ruleset is automatically selected based upon the file suffix. It may be changed using the File | Change Ruleset... command.
DiffMerge compares the files after the files have been converted from the original character encoding into UNICODE. So files that are in different encodings can be compared.
You may drag the splitter to change the relative size of the file panels. Double-click on it to restore it to the center.
Highlighed Changes are surrounded by a dotted line. When a change is highlighted, it may be acted upon by the Apply Change... [14] commands and the custom right-mouse context menus. You can also use the Next/Previous Change [14] commands to jump between changes.
As a precaution, adjacent or overlapping changes are aggregated into a single change. Usually this produces a conflict (depending on the individual types of changes in the grouping). When you’re merging multiple files, these usually require your attention because DiffMerge cannot automatically determine what to do with them.
To access an individual line change within a block of changes, hold down the Control key while using the left or right mouse buttons to select the desired line.
The term Patching refers to the various commands that let you apply a change to the Editable Panel using the content of the other panel(s).
These commands are based upon concept of a Highlighted Change.

### FETCH_HEAD

In its default mode, git pull is shorthand for git fetch followed by git merge FETCH_HEAD

When FETCH_HEAD (and no other commit) is specified, the branches recorded in the .git/FETCH_HEAD file by the previous invocation of git fetch for merging are merged to the current branch.


FETCH_HEAD is a short-lived ref, to keep track of what has just been fetched from the remote repository. git pull first invokes git fetch, in normal cases fetching a branch from the remote; FETCH_HEAD points to the tip of this branch (it stores the SHA1 of the commit, just as branches do). git pull then invokes git merge, merging FETCH_HEAD into the current branch.

The result is exactly what you'd expect: the commit at the tip of the appropriate remote branch is merged into the commit at the tip of your current branch.

This is a bit like doing git fetch without arguments (or git remote update), updating all your remote branches, then running git merge origin/branch, but using FETCH_HEAD internally instead to refer to whatever single ref was fetched, instead of needing to name things.

```bash
    git fetch origin branch-xxxx
    cat .git/FETCH_HEAD | grep -v 'not-for-merge'
    git checkout develop
    git pull
    git merge FETCH_HEAD
    diffmerge
    git add .
    git commit
    git push origin HEAD
```


Say you checkout the master branch, git checkout master -- git will change your working directory to match the commit data in the 'objects' folder that matches the commit value in the '.git/refs/heads/master' file.

If you then git fetch origin master, the '.git/refs/remotes/origin/master' file is updated to the commit of the master branch on the remote origin -- and all commit data needed for that commit is downloaded and placed in the 'objects' folder.

The important point here is git fetch does not update your working directory reflects the local branch checked out and git fetch never updates a local branch.

Using either git merge ... or git rebase ... is needed to update the local master branch with the changes in origin/master.  git pull ... does both git fetch ... and either git merge ... or git rebase ..., depending on options and configuration (git merge ... is the default).

[git fetch](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/15032159/git-fetch-fetch-head-and-origin-master)


### uninstall git

To uninstall Git, run the following: rm -rf /usr/local/git rm /etc/paths.d/git rm /etc/manpaths.d/git

[uninstall](code.google.com/p/git-osx-installer/wiki/Uninstall)


### Workflow
[feature branch workflow](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/feature-branch-workflow)  
[A successful Git branching model](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/)


### Delete Remote Branch

As of Git v1.7.0, you can delete a remote branch using

    git push origin --delete <branchName>

which is easier to remember than

    git push origin :<branchName>

[Delete Remote Branch](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2003505/delete-a-git-branch-both-locally-and-remotely)


### SourceTree 

    Error encountered on Source Tree - git log failed with code 128

I fixed by removing from bookmarks, opening the repo from File -> Open, and saving to bookmarks again.

[ref](https://answers.atlassian.com/questions/94201/error-encountered-on-source-tree-git-log-failed-with-code-128)

SourceTree and SmartSynchronize

diff
/Applications/SmartSynchronize.app/Contents/MacOS/SmartSynchronize "$LOCAL" "$REMOTE"

merge
/Applications/SmartSynchronize.app/Contents/MacOS/SmartSynchronize "$LOCAL" "$REMOTE" "$BASE"

note: must quit SmartSynchronize every time you diff and merge


### Remove remote branch


### 

This comes from an old C decision that has been passed down through Unix history:

> A source file that is not empty shall end in a new-line character, which shall not be immediately preceded by a backslash character.

> Since this is a “shall” clause, we must emit a diagnostic message for a violation of this rule.

[noeol](https://robots.thoughtbot.com/no-newline-at-end-of-file)

### Reset remote branch

if you have access to the remote git server in ssh, you can go into the git remote directory and set:

user@remote$ git config receive.denyNonFastforwards false
Then go back to your local repo, try again to do your commit with --force:

user@local$ git push origin +master:master --force
And finally revert the server's setting in the original protected state:

user@remote$ git config receive.denyNonFastforwards true

[reset remote branch](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1377845/git-reset-hard-and-a-remote-repository)  
[reset remote branch](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5816688/reseting-remote-to-a-certain-commit)

### Interactive rebase in SourceTree

[Interactive rebase in SourceTree](http://blogs.atlassian.com/2014/06/interactive-rebase-sourcetree/)

### Plumbing and Porcelain

You may see some other files in there, but this is a fresh git init repository – it’s what you see by default. 
The description file is only used by the GitWeb program, so don’t worry about it. 
The config file contains your project-specific configuration options, 
and the info directory keeps a global exclude file for ignored patterns that you don’t want to track in a .gitignore file. 
The hooks directory contains your client- or server-side hook scripts, which are discussed in detail in Git Hooks.

This leaves four important entries: the HEAD and (yet to be created) index files, and the objects and refs directories. 
These are the core parts of Git. The objects directory stores all the content for your database, 
the refs directory stores pointers into commit objects in that data (branches), 
the HEAD file points to the branch you currently have checked out, 
and the index file is where Git stores your staging area information. 

[Plumbing and Porcelain](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Internals-Plumbing-and-Porcelain)


### SmartGit

[SmartGit with iTerm](https://gist.github.com/gipmon/e32bda2aba4c28219018)

    ${smartGitDir}/Contents/Resources/open-terminal.sh


iTerm3:

```bash

#!/bin/bash
/usr/bin/osascript - $1 2>/dev/null << EOF
on run argv
    set newpath to (do shell script "echo $PATH")

    set path_cd to ""
    repeat with n from 1 to count of argv
      set path_cd to path_cd & item n of argv & ASCII character (92)  & " "
    end repeat
    set path_cd to text 1 thru -3 of path_cd

    tell application "iTerm"
        tell current window
            set newTab to (create tab with default profile)
            tell current session
                write text "cd "  & path_cd
            end tell
        end tell
    end tell
end run
EOF



```

iTerm2:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
/usr/bin/osascript - $1 2>/dev/null << EOF
on run argv
    set newpath to (do shell script "echo $PATH")

    set path_cd to ""
    repeat with n from 1 to count of argv
      set path_cd to path_cd & item n of argv & ASCII character (92)  & " "
    end repeat
    set path_cd to text 1 thru -3 of path_cd

    tell application "iTerm"
        make new terminal
        tell the current terminal
            activate current session
            launch session "Default Session"
            tell the last session
                write text "cd "  & path_cd
            end tell
        end tell
    end tell
end run
EOF
```

[iTerm2 applescript](https://gitlab.com/gnachman/iterm2/wikis/Applescript)
[iTerm3 applescript](https://www.iterm2.com/applescript.html)

### SmartGit Patch

Creating a patch:

>Open the Log  
>Pick a branch and right-click on a commit  
>Select "Format patch..." and save the file  

Applying a patch:

>Open the Log  
>Go to "Tools" and then "Apply patch..."  
>Select the patch  
>The patch will be applied on the branch that is currently checked out.


### Git submodules

One - you have a component or subproject where the project is undergoing extremely rapid change or is unstable, so you actually want to be locked to a specific commit for your own safety. Or, perhaps a project is breaking backwards compatibility of their API and you don’t want to have to deal with that till they stabilize their code. In this case, git submodules, being reasonably static, are protecting you because of that static nature. You don’t have to clone the outside component and switch to a specific branch or go to any of that hassle - things just work.

Two - you have a subproject or component that you’re either vendoring or isn’t being updated too often, and you just want an easy copy on hand. To provide an example, in my dot files, if there’s a vim plugin I want I can just add it as a git submodule, and it’s done. I don’t care about the history. I don’t need to be at the latest version. I don’t plan on doing a lot of work on that code myself. Since this entire workflow is static, things work fine.

Three - There’s a part of your repository that you’re delegating to another party. Let’s say you’re paying someone to write a plugin for a project you’re using, and you need to develop on the main codebase. In this case, the plugin repository is chiefly developed by the plugin developers, so they own the repo and periodically they’ll tell you when to update submodule commits. Submodules are great for dividing responsibilities like this, assuming that there’s not frequent updating.

[Git Submodules](https://chrisjean.com/git-submodules-adding-using-removing-and-updating/)

[Using a Git submodule as Maven parent project](http://stdout.koraktor.de/blog/2011/04/15/using-a-git-submodule-as-maven-parent-project/)

[Git submodules are probably not the answer](http://somethingsinistral.net/blog/git-submodules-are-probably-not-the-answer/)

[Manage Maven Directories](http://www.codetab.org/apache-maven-tutorial/manage-maven-directories/)


### git-svn

remove remote git

vim .git/info/refs
vim .git/packed-refs

rm -rf .git/svn
rm .git/refs/remotes/*


