---
layout: post
title: Idea
category: Idea
---

### Start


Preferences -> Appearance & Behavior -> Antialiasing 选择 Greyscale 就可以了


### multiple projects

[multiple projects](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/8774024/intellij-working-on-multiple-projects)


### Maven

[idea maven support](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/help/maven.html)

```
[ERROR] Error executing Maven.  
[ERROR] 1 problem was encountered while building the effective settings  
[FATAL] Non-parseable settings /Users/xxx/.m2/settings.xml: expected START_TAG or END_TAG not TEXT (position: TEXT seen <settings>\n\ua0\ua0\ua0\ua0<servers>\n\ua0\ua0\ua0\ua0\ua0\ua0\ua0\ua0<s... @3:11)  @ /Users/xxx/.m2/settings.xml, line 3, column 11
```

no-break space:

```java
  &ua0; 
  \ua0
```

[Getting Started with Maven](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/help/getting-started-with-maven.html)



### Project

A project is an organizational unit that represents a complete software solution. It serves as a basis for coding assistance, bulk refactoring, coding style consistency, etc.


Your finished product may be decomposed into a series of discrete, isolated modules, but it's a project definition that brings them together and ties them into a greater whole.


Projects don't themselves contain development artifacts such as source code, build scripts, or documentation. They are the highest level of organization in the IDE, and they define project-wide settings as well as collections of what IntelliJ IDEA refers to as modules and libraries.

[idea project](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/help/project.html)

### Module

A module is a discrete unit of functionality which you can compile, run, test and debug independently.  


Modules contain everything that is required for their specific tasks: source code, build scripts, unit tests, deployment descriptors, and documentation. However, modules exist and are functional only in the context of a project.


Configuration information for a module is stored in a .iml module file. By default, such a file is located in the module's content root folder.


Development teams, normally, share the .iml module files through version control.

[idea module](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/help/module.html)


### Facet

Facets represent various frameworks, technologies and languages used in a module. They let IntelliJ IDEA know how to treat the module contents and thus ensure conformity with the corresponding frameworks and technologies.



### Startup

If you are using Java 7 or 8:  
Copy the file idea.properties from /Applications/IntelliJ IDEA14.app/Contents/bin to ~/Library/Preferences/IntelliJ IDEA14 
Open ~/Library/Preferences/IntelliJ IDEA14/idea.properties for editing.  
Change JVMVersion=1.6* to JVMVersion=1.7* if you are using Java 7 or to JVMVersion=1.8* if you are using Java 8.  


### Compile Make Build

1、Compile：只编译选定的目标，不管之前是否已经编译过。  
 
2、Make：编译选定的目标，但是Make只编译上次编译变化过的文件，减少重复劳动，节省时间。（具体怎么检查未变化，这个就不用考虑了，IDE自己内部会搞定这些的）  
 
3、Build：是对整个工程进行彻底的重新编译，而不管是否已经编译过。Build过程往往会生成发布包，这个具体要看对IDE的配置了，Build在实际中应用很少，因为开发时候基本上不用，发布生产时候一般都用ANT等工具来发布。Build因为要全部编译，还要执行打包等额外工作，因此时间较长。  


### Compiler and Builder

The Java builder of IntelliJ IDEA builds, or brings together source files, external libraries, properties files and configurations to produce a living application. The builder uses a compiler that works according to the Java specification.


All compilation tasks are performed in a separate process, fully independent from the main IDE’s process, to get rid of the "out of memory" and other resources contention.


Java compiler is used “in-process” via Java API for better performance and more flexible annotation processors management.


With IntelliJ IDEA you can build your applications using Ant, Maven or Gradle.


IntelliJ IDEA suggests several ways of compiling and building applications. The corresponding commands are available in the Build menu.

Compile compilation_scope. All the source files in the specified scope are compiled. The scope in this case may be a file, a package, etc.  
Make Project. All the source files in the entire project that have been modified since the last compilation are compiled. Dependent source files, if appropriate, are also compiled. Additionally, the tasks tied to the compilation or make process on modified sources are performed. For example, EJB validation is performed if the corresponding option is enabled on the Validation page.  
Make Module. Compiled are all the source files that have been modified since the last compilation in the selected module as well as in all the modules it depends on recursively.  
Rebuild Project. All the source files in the project are recompiled. This may be necessary when the classpath entries have changed, for example, SDKs or libraries being used added, removed or altered.  

[idea compiler and builder](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/help/compiler-and-builder.html)

### Show JavaDoc Tooltip

If the cursor is inside the method- or attribute name, then `CTRL+Q` will show the JavaDoc on *nix and Windows. On MacOSX, this is CTRL+J.

### Recent Projects

> File -> Open Recent -> Clear List

> ~/Library/Preferences/IntelliJIdea14/options/other.xml
> (not exist!) manually edit the list of recent projects inside the XML under <component name="RecentProjectsManager"> node.

### Directories used by the IDE to store settings, caches, plugins and logs

Mac OS X

Configuration:
    ~/Library/Preferences/<PRODUCT><VERSION>
Caches:
    ~/Library/Caches/<PRODUCT><VERSION>
Plugins:
    ~/Library/Application Support/<PRODUCT><VERSION>
Logs:
    ~/Library/Logs/<PRODUCT><VERSION>

[Directories](https://intellij-support.jetbrains.com/hc/en-us/articles/206827437-Directories-used-by-the-IDE-to-store-settings-caches-plugins-and-logs)

### not recognizing classes

First of all you should try File | Invalidate Caches and if it doesn't help, delete IDEA system directory. Then re-import the Maven project and see if it helps.

In some weird cases compiled classes may report wrong info and confuse IDEA. Verify that the classes from this jar report correct names using javap.

[IntellijIDEA not recognizing classes specified in Maven dependencies](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5905896/intellij-inspection-gives-cannot-resolve-symbol-but-still-compiles-code)


### ini4idea

set .conf file open with ini4idea

Unlike DOS-based OSes, in Unix and Linux file extensions are mostly meaningless outside of human-readable reasons. INI is a configuration file standard.

A .conf file could be an INI file, or it could be any other configuration system that the application supports. MySQL, for example, uses the file my.cnf by default for configuration, which is an INI file.

[difference between .ini and .conf](http://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/54957/what-is-the-difference-between-ini-and-conf)

### jump to implementations

You will need to move your cursor to the interface name before invoking the shortcut. If you right click the interface name -> "Go To" -> "Implementations"... the shortcut is listed there.

### ZeroLengthRadar

[zero character marker](https://github.com/harley84/ZeroLengthRadar)
