---
layout: post
title: extjs
category: js
---



[Sencha Fiddle](https://fiddle.sencha.com)


application start code 
----------------------

```javascript

Ext.Loader.setConfig({
    disableCaching: false,
    enabled: true
});

Ext.application({
    name: 'App',
    controllers: [
        'Controller'
    ],
    launch: function() {
        Ext.create('App.view.Viewport', {});
    }
});

```

The `launch` function is defined in `Ext.app.Application`. This function is called after the page is loaded.


Class
=====

### Ext


Ext is a global singleton object that encapsulates all classes, singletons, and utility methods in the Sencha library. Many commonly used utility functions are deined in Ext.

### Ext.application

This function loads the `Ext.app.Application` class and starts it with the given coniguration after the page is loaded.

`Ext.app.Application` is a class that represents the entire application

### Ext.define

`Ext.define(name, data, callback)`

Here, name is the name of the class, data is the properties to apply to this class, and callback is an optional function that will be called after the class is created

### Ext.create

`Ext.create(Class,Options)`

If `Ext.Loader` is enabled, Ext.create will automatically download the appropriate JavaScript ile if the class does not exist. By default, the Ext.Loader is enabled; you can disable it by setting the enabled conig in Ext.Loader to false.

### Ext.onReady


```javascript
Ext.onReady(function(){ 
	new Ext.Component({ 
		renderTo: document.body, 
		html: 'DOM ready!' 
	}); 
});
```

This function is called once the page is loaded.

In most cases, you don't have to use the `onReady` method in your code. Rarely, in some special cases, you may need to use it. If you're from a jQuery background, do not try to use onReady frequently as you can do the same in jQuery with `$( document ).ready()`.

### alias and xtype

When you deine a `class`, you can give a shorthand `alias`. For example, the Ext. panel.Panel has an alias called `widget.panel`. When you define widgets, instead of specifying the alias, you can also use `xtype` to give a shorthand name for the class.

The `xtype` is very useful to specify the widgets that a container will have without creating the instance when the deinition of your container gets executed.

### Ext.widget

`Ext.widget` is the shorthand to create a widget by its `xtype`.

```javascript
Ext.create('Ext.panel.Panel', {
	renderTo: Ext.getBody(),
	title: 'by class Panel' 
});

Ext.widget('panel', {
	renderTo: Ext.getBody(),
	title: 'by xtype Panel'
});

Ext.create('widget.panel', {
	renderTo: Ext.getBody(),
	title: 'by alias Panel'
});

```

### Ext.getClass

This returns the class of the given object if the instance is created with Ext.define; otherwise, it returns null. 

`Ext.getClassName` returns the name of the class by its reference or its instance.

```javascript
var button = new Ext.Button(); 
Ext.getClass(button); // returns Ext.Button

Ext.getClassName(button); //returns "Ext.Button"

```

### Ext.ClassManager

This manages all the classes and handles mapping from __a string class name__ to __the actual class objects__. It is generally accessed through these shorthands:

* Ext.define
* Ext.create
* Ext.widget
* Ext.getClass
* Ext.getClassName

### Ext.Loader

This is used for dynamic dependency loading. Normally, the `Ext.require` shorthand is used. When you deine a class, it's a good practice to specify the list of components required.

`Ext.require(['widget.window', 'layout.border', 'Ext.data.Connection']);`

In this way, the required classes are loaded asynchronously. If you don't specify the required classes in your definition, then when the instance is created using `Ext.Create`, the class file will be loaded synchronously if it's not loaded already.

Note that the file path to locate a class is calculated based on the name of the class. For example, the file path of the MyApp.view.About class should be \myapp\view\ about.js.

`Ext.Ajax.disableCaching = false;`

Including ext-all-debug.js will allow the entire Ext JS framework to load at one time, saving more than half the time of the page load for you. All of Ext JS was loaded but your application classes were loaded dynamically. The drawback to this approach is that, by default, the Ext JS loader system is `disabled` in this version of the framework. You’re going to have to enable the loader system and give it instructions for where your application code lives. To do so, include this code:

```js
Ext.Loader.setConfig({ 
	enabled : true, 
	paths : {MyApp : 'js/MyApp'} 
});
```

Note that all relative paths are relative to the current HTML document. If paths not being specified, for example, Other.awesome.Class will simply be loaded from "./Other/awesome/Class.js"

`Ext.app.Application.appFolder`

The path to the directory which contains all application's classes. This path will be registered via `Ext.Loader.setPath` for the namespace specified in the name config.
Defaults to: '__app__'


Event
=====

adds a listener for the click event when the object is created:

```javascript
Ext.create('Ext.Button', { 
	renderTo: Ext.getBody(), 
	listeners: { 
		click: function() {
			Ext.Msg.alert('Button clicked!'); 
			} 
		} 
	}
);
```

add listeners after the instance is created with the on method:

```javascript
var button = Ext.create('Ext.Button');

button.on('click', function() {

});

```

remove the listeners, need the reference to the function:

```javascript
button.un('click', HandleClick);
```

add listeners to the DOM element

```javascript
<div id="mydiv"></div>

var div = Ext.get('mydiv'); 
div.on('click', function(e, t, eOpts) { 

});

```

DOM
===

### Ext.get

This takes the ID of a DOM node and retrieves the element wrapped as `Ext.dom.Element`:

```javascript
var mydiv = Ext.get('myDivId');
```

### Ext.query

This selects the child nodes of a given root based on the passed CSS selector. It returns an array of elements (HTMLElement[]/Ext.dom.Element[]) that match the selector. If there are no matches, an empty array is returned.

```javascript
var someNodes = Ext.query('.oddRow', myCustomComponent.getEl().dom);
```

### Ext.select

Given some CSS/XPath selector, Ext.select returns a single object of type `CompositeElement`, which represents a collection of elements.

This `CompositeElement` has methods to ilter, iterate, and perform collective actions on the whole set, and so on:

```javascript
Ext.select('div.row').setWidth(100);
```

When you use select, it takes the HTML body as the root and starts searching the entire DOM tree of the body by default.

search the children of the given root:

```javascript
Ext.get('myEl').select('div.row');
Ext.select('div.row', true, 'myEl');
```

### Ext.ComponentQuery

Provides searching of Components within `Ext.ComponentManager` (globally) or a specific `Ext.container.Container` on the document with a similar syntax to a CSS selector. Returns Array of matching Components, or empty Array.

This allows you to find a component with the `id`, `itemId`, `xtype`, and properties.

Query all the components with the `xtype`:

```javascript
Ext.ComponentQuery.query('button');
```

You can search Components by their `id` or `itemId` property, prefixed with a #:

```javascript
Ext.ComponentQuery.query('#foo');
```

The following code will return all the components with the `xtype` button and the my button title `property`:

```javascript
Ext.ComponentQuery.query("button[title='my button']");

parent.query('textfield[title=my button]');

Ext.ComponentQuery.query('formpanel numberfield'); 
// Gets only the numberfields under a form

parent.child('button[itemId=save]');
//returns the irst direct child of the container

```

Component `xtype` and `id` or `itemId` can be used together to avoid possible id collisions between Components of different types:

```js
var myPanel = Ext.ComponentQuery.query('panel#myPanel');
var myPanel = Ext.ComponentQuery.query('my\\.panel#myPanel');
```

`Ext.getCmp(id)` is shorthand reference to `Ext.ComponentManager.get`. Looks up an existing Component by `id`.

```js
var formPanel = Ext.getCmp('myFormPanel'); 
```

Component
=========

### Ext.Component

All the components are derived from `Ext.Component`, which provides supports to create, resize, render, and dispose the components

All the components have a property called `xtype`. This is very useful when you don't want to instantiate the component immediately, but you want to lazy load it.

Every widget is registered to the `Ext.ComponentManager` class with a unique string key and a reference to that class. In each UI class in the framework, you’ll find an `alias` declaration that is __prefixed__ with '`widget.`' The Ext JS class system automatically registers the widget’s XType with `ComponentManager` __because of the prefix__.

```js
Ext.define('MyApp.CustomClass', { 
	extend: 'Ext.panel.Panel', 
	alias: 'widget.myCustomComponent' 
});

xtype : 'myCustomComponent'

```

When a visual component that can contain children is initialized, it looks to see if it has `this.items` and will inspect `this.items` for XType configuration objects. If any are found, it’ll attempt to create an instance of that component using `ComponentManager.create`. If the `xtype` property isn’t defined in the configuration object, the visual component will use its `defaultType` property when calling `ComponentManager.create`.

### Ext.container.Container

Containers are a special type of component that are capable of holding other components with the `items` property. `Ext.container.Container` is the base class of all the containers in Ext JS.

A `layout` defines how the contained components are positioned and sized. Every container has a layout. The default layout is `auto`.

```javascript
layout: 'center'
```

The `updateLayout` is a method in `Ext.container.Container`. This can be used to reposition the child components according to the layout rule. In these scenarios, you can set the suspendLayout property to true, and once you inish adding or removing the children, you can set suspendLayout to false and call the updateLayout method in your code.

### handler

You can use the listeners instead of using the handler to handling the events.

set defaultListenerScope to true

```javascript
Ext.create('Ext.panel.Panel', {
	renderTo: Ext.getBody(),
	defaultListenerScope: true,
	layout: 'fit',
	items: [ { xtype: 'button', text: 'Item', handler: 'myhandler' } ],
	myhandler: function () {
		alert('xxx'); 
	}
});

Ext.create('Ext.Button', { 
	text: 'My Button', 
	renderTo: Ext.getBody(), 
	handler: function() {
		alert('click'); 
	} 
});

Ext.create('Ext.Button', { 
    text: 'My Button', 
    renderTo: Ext.getBody(), 
    listeners: { 
    	click: function(){ 
            alert('click');
    	}, 
    	mouseout: { 
            fn: function(){ 
                alert('Mouse out'); 
            } 
        }
    } 
});

```

### Ext.MessageBox

The `Ext.window.MessageBox` class provides the message box implementation. `Ext.MessageBox` is a singleton instance of this class. `Ext.Msg` is the alias of `Ext.Messagebox`.

```javascript
Ext.Msg.alert('Info', 'Document saved!');

Ext.Msg.confirm('Confirm', 'Are you sure?', function(btn) { 
	if('yes' == btn) {
	} else {
	}
});

```

### Ext.form.Panel

The form panel has a convenient conig called `fieldDefaults`, which can be used to specify the default config values for all the fields. 

```javascript
var form = this.up('form').getForm(); 
if (form.isValid()) {
}
```

```js
var formPanel = Ext.getCmp('myFormPanel'); 
formPanel.getValues();
formPanel.getForm().setValues(dataObj);
formPanel.getForm().loadRecord(Ext.data.Record)
formPanel.el.mask('Please wait', 'x-mask-loading');
formPanel.el.unmask();
```

### field validation

The text field comes with `allowBlank`, `minLength`, and `maxLength`. `vtype` is used for validation, `allowBlank` is a validation property.

### Ext.form.field.ComboBox

The combobox has a config called `store`. Another important config in the combobox is `queryMode`. This can be either `local` or `remote` (default). `displayField`, `valueField`.


```js
{
	xtype : 'combo', 
	name : 'title',
	queryMode : 'local',
	valueField : 'title',
	store: ['Mr.', 'Ms.', 'Dr.']
}
```

Ext JS provides a lot of shortcuts and convenience classes. The ComboBox example doesn’t have a `model` or `fields` definition. During the construction phase of the store, Ext JS will create `Ext.data.ArrayStore`, which uses `Ext.data.reader.Array` automatically for you and sets it up for use during runtime.

```js
var arrayData = [ 
['Jay Garcia', 'MD'], 
['Aaron Baker', 'VA'], 
['Susan Smith', 'DC']
];

Ext.define('User', { 
	extend : 'Ext.data.Model', 
	fields : [ { 
		name : 'name', 
		mapping : 1 
	}, { 
		name : 'state', 
		mapping : 2 
	}]
});

var store = Ext.create('Ext.data.Store', { 
	model : 'User', 
	proxy : { 
		type : 'memory', 
		reader : { 
			model : 'User', 
			type : 'array' 
		}
	}
});

store.loadData(arrayData);
```

```js
var store = Ext.create('Ext.data.ArrayStore', { 
	data : arrayData, 
	fields : ['personName', 'state'] 
});
```

```js
var store = Ext.create('Ext.data.ArrayStore', { 
	data : arrayData, 
	fields : [
		'fullName' : 
			{name: 'name', mapping : 1}, 
		'state':
			{name: 'state', mapping : 1}, 
		] 
});
```

You use shortcut notation for the fields to create an instance of Ext.data.ArrayStore. You achieve this by passing a reference of the data, which is your arrayData, and a list of fields, which provides the mapping. Notice how the fields property is a simple list of strings. This is a completely valid configuration of field mappings, because Ext JS is smart enough to create the name and index map- ping based on string values passed in this manner.


### Ext.form.FieldContainer

```javascript
Ext.create('Ext.form.FieldContainer', {
	renderTo: Ext.getBody(), 
    fieldLabel: 'Name', 
    layout: 'hbox', 
    combineErrors: true, 
    defaultType: 'textfield', 
    defaults: {
		hideLabel: 'true' 
    }, 
    items: [
        { 
            name: 'firstName', 
            fieldLabel: 'First Name', 
            flex: 2, 
            emptyText: 'First', 
            allowBlank: false 
        }, 
        { 
        	name: 'lastName', 
        	fieldLabel: 'Last Name', 
        	flex: 3, 
        	margin: '0 0 0 6', 
        	emptyText: 'Last', 
        	allowBlank: false 
        }
    ]
});
```

### Ext.container.Viewport

This is a specialized container that represents the browser's application view area.

In the Viewport, we will set the `scrollable` option to make this child component scrollable. Instead of `true` or `false`, this option can also take `x` or `y` as values to enable only horizontal or vertical scroll.

```javascript
Ext.create('Ext.container.Viewport', { 
    scrollable: true, 
    items: [{ 
		xtype: 'container', 
		layout: { 
			type: 'hbox', 
			align: 'center', 
			pack: 'center' 
		}, 
		items: []
	}]
});
```


Data
====

### Ext.data.Model

A model deines the fields, field types, validation, associations, and proxies. When a field is speciied without type, then the default type '`auto`' will be used. Normally, proxies are specified in the data store.

```javascript
fields: []
```

`var User = Ext.ModelManager.getModel('User');`

Perform validations directly on the model:

```js
Ext.define("Employee", { 
	extend : 'Ext.data.Model', 
	fields : ['firstName', 'email'],
	validations: [
		{ type : 'presence', field : 'firstName' },
		{ type : 'format', field : 'email', matcher : /@/ }
	]
});

var sofie = Ext.create('Employee', { firstName: 'Sofie' } );

var errors = sofie.validate();
```

### Ext.data.field.Field

alias: 'data.field.email'

```javascript
{ name: 'fulltime', type: 'boolean', defaultValue: true, convert: null }
```

By default, when you specify a `type` for a field, the data is converted to that type before it is saved to the field. This conversion is handled by the inbuilt `convert` method. The `auto` field type doesn't have a convert method.

To create an instance of a model, use `Ext.create`.
The model has get and set methods to read and set values:

```javascript
var newEmployee = Ext.create('Employee', {
	id : 1
});
var lastName = newEmployee.get('lastName'); 
newEmployee.set('gender','Female');
```

### Ext.data.Store

A store represents a collection of instances of the model and proxies used to get the data.

The `storeId` is a unique identifier of the store. This store has a method called `load`, which is used to load the data via the conigured `proxy`. If you set `autoLoad` to `true`, then the load method will be called automatically when the store is created. If you set `autoLoad` to `false`, then you can call the `load` method to load the data.

inline data store, filtering and sorting:

```javascript
Ext.create('Ext.data.Store', {
	model: 'Employee', 
	storeId: 'mystore',
	data: [{
	}],
	sorters: [{ 
		property: 'firstName', 
		direction: 'ASC' 
	}, { 
		property: 'fulltime', 
		direction: 'DESC' 
	}],
	filters: [{ property: 'firstName', value: /an/ }]
});
```

Ext JS needs the `idProperty` for internal bookkeeping before sending updates back to the server. 

`successProperty`

```js
store.load({ 
	callback : function(records, operation, success) {
	
	}
});

```

### Ext.data.ArrayStore

The format of data the `ArrayStore` consumes is an array of arrays. Reformatting store data as follows:

```javascript
var cars = [['audi'], ['benz'], ['citron'], ['nissan'], ['alto']];
for ( var i = 0, c = cars.length; i < c; i++ ) {
    cars[i] = [cars[i]];
}
```


### Ext.data.StoreManager

There are multiple ways you can access the store in other parts of your application. We need to use `storeId`. 

Note that when the store is instantiated by a `controller`, `storeId` will be __overridden__ by __the name of the store__.

```javascript
Ext.data.StoreManager.lookup('mystore');
Ext.getStore('mystore');
```

`Ext.getStore` is a shortcut method for `Ext.data.StoreManager.lookup`.


Grid
====

The grid panel is one of the most powerful components in Ext JS. With so many options and conigurations, you can build any kind of grid the way you want.

Ext JS provides complete support to pagination, sorting, filtering, searching, row editing, cell editing, grouping, docking toolbars, buffered scrolling, column resizing and hiding, grouped header, multiple sort, row expander, and so on.

The class name for the grid in the modern toolkit is `Ext.grid.Grid`, but in the classic toolkit, it is `Ext.grid.Panel`.

For each column in `columns` property, either the `width` or the `flex` can be specified. set the `flex` to 1 for the column, which makes the column use the rest of the available width that is not used by the other two columns.

The `dataIndex` property of the column has to match with one of the fields in the model.

A column can be kept hidden by setting the `hidden` property of the column to true.

The `renderer` config of a column can be used to alter how the data is rendered for this column. Similarly, you can use the renderer to render HTML tags to the column. You can also add URLs and render images in the column as well.

```javascript
renderer: function(value) {
	return Ext.String.format('${0}', value); 
}
```


### Ext.grid.filters.Filters

For each column, you can specify the filter type, such as `string`, `bool`, and so on, and the additional configs (such as `emptyText`) of the search field. 

`plugins: 'gridfilters'`

```javascript
Ext.create('Ext.grid.Panel', {
	plugins: 'gridfilters',
	columns: [{
		dataIndex: 'productname', 
		filter:'string'
	},{
		dataIndex: 'desc', 
		sortable: false,
		filter: {
			type: 'string',
			itemDefaults: { emptyText: 'Search for...'}
		}
	}]
});

```

### Ext.toolbar.Paging

```javascript
var productStore = Ext.create('Ext.data.Store', {
	pageSize: 10,
	autoLoad: true,
	proxy: {
		type: 'ajax',
		url: 'data.json',
		reader: {
			type: 'json',
			rootProperty: 'data',
			totalProperty: 'total'
		}
	}
});

Ext.create('Ext.grid.Panel', {
	store: productStore,
	dockedItems: [{ 
		xtype: 'pagingtoolbar', 
		store: productStore, 
		dock: 'bottom', 
		displayInfo: true 
	}]
});

```

The `rootProperty` tells the store where to ind the records in the JSON file, and the `totalProperty` lets the store know from where to read the total number of records count. To get the right behavior, you need to specify `totalProperty` when you use the server-side pagination. This total value will be used by the paging toolbar.

The `pageSize` value 10 will be used by the store when you send the request to the server to limit the number of records. A sample request URL is shown here:

`http://localhost:8000/data.json?page=1&start=0&limit=10`

Here, the limit is set to 10 because in the store, we have set `pageSize` as 10.

### Ext.grid.plugin.CellEditing

`plugins: ['cellediting','gridfilters']`

To add the cell editing support to the grid, simply add the `cellediting` plugin and set the editor for the required column.

The editor can be a simple text ield, or you can add bit complex components, such as combobox, with an attached store to provide the list of values for the column.

```javascript
Ext.create('Ext.grid.Panel', {
	plugins: ['cellediting','gridfilters'],
	columns: [{
		dataIndex: 'productname', 
		filter: 'string',
		editor: new Ext.form.field.ComboBox({ 
			typeAhead: true, 
			triggerAction: 'all', 
			store: [
				['Bath','Bath'], 
				['Kitchen','Kitchen'], 
				['Electronic','Electronic'], 
				['Food', 'Food'], 
				['Computer', 'Computer']
			]
		})
	},{
		dataIndex: 'desc', 
		sortable: false,
		editor: { 
			allowBlank: false, 
			type: 'string' 
		},
		filter: {
			type: 'string',
			itemDefaults: { emptyText: 'Search for...'}
		}
	}]
});

```

Once the records are edited, by default, it won't save the records to the server.

`Ext.grid.plugin.RowEditing` `['rowediting','gridfilters']`

### Ext.grid.feature.Feature

In order to group a column, you need to specify the grouping field using the `groupField` property of the `store`, and we need to set `Ext.grid.feature.Feature` in the `grid`.

```javascript
var productStore = Ext.create('Ext.data.Store', {
	groupField: 'type'
});

Ext.create('Ext.grid.Panel', {
	store: productStore,
	features: [{ 
		id: 'group', 
		ftype: 'grouping', 
		groupHeaderTpl : '{name}', 
		hideGroupedHeader: true, 
		enableGroupingMenu: false 
	}],
	columns: [{
		text: 'Type', 
		width: 100, 
		dataIndex: 'type'
	},{ 
		text: 'Description', 
		dataIndex: 'desc', 
		sortable: false, 
		flex: 1, 
		groupable:false 
	}]
});

```

At runtime, you can group by other fields in the grid. This option can be disabled for all the columns by setting the `enableGroupingMenu` property of the grouping feature to false. You can disable this grouping for speciic columns alone by setting the `groupable` property of the column to false.

The grouping template can be used to add additional information, such as the number of items in the group or any other information that you want to include by replacing the groupHeaderTpl : '{name}', line in the preceding example code with:

```javascript
groupHeaderTpl : '{columnName}: {name} ({rows.length} Item{[values. rows.length > 1 ? "s" : "]})'
```


### Ext.selection.Model

```js
selType: 'rowmodel'
singleSelect: true
multiSelect: true
```

```javascript

var grid = Ext.ComponentQuery.query('xxxgrid')[0];

var sm = grid.getSelectionModel();

var selectedRec = sm.getSelection()[0]
var selectedVal = selectedRec.get('lastname');

//This line cancels the row/cell edit if it is active before we remove the item. grid.plugins[0].cancelEdit();

grid.getStore().remove(sm.getSelection()); 
if (grid.getStore().getCount() > 0) {
	sm.select(0); 
}
```

```javascript
grid.plugins[0].cancelEdit();

// Create a model instance 
var r = Ext.create('Contact'); 
grid.getStore().insert(0, r); 
grid.plugins[0].startEdit(0, 0);
```

`rowdblclick`
`contextmenu`

```js
grid.selModel.select(record); 
grid.rowCtxMenu.showAt(e.getXY());
```

`store.rejectChanges();`

### Reconfigure grid

```javascript
//Reconfigures the grid / tree with a new store/columns.
reconfigure( Ext.data.Store store, Ext.grid.ColumnModel colModel );

//store' autoLoad should be set to false

data:{
	'columns' :[ { 'dataIndex' : 'something' , 'text' : ' something' }, ...]
	'fields' :[{ 'name' : 'something' }, ...]
	'data' :[{ 'something' :  'else' }, ...]
}

Ext.Ajax.request({ 
	url : '/resources/cfms/data.cfm?event=sales_report', 
	success: function(response){ 
		var data = Ext.decode(response.responseText);
		
		var store = Ext.getStore('DataStore');
		store.model.setFields(data.fields); 
		
		grid.reconfigure(store, data.columns); 
		
		store.loadRawData(data.data, false); 
	}, 
	failure: function(response){ 
		console.log(response); 
	} 
});

```

`Ext.ComponentQuery.query('#time')[0].getStore().load({params: hourData}, false);`


Ext.onReady
===========

`<body onLoad="initApp();">`

The `onLoad` code is generally fired at different times for different browsers. For instance, some browsers fire this method when the DOM is ready and all content has been loaded and rendered by the browser. This isn’t a good thing, because the code generally wants to start managing and manipulating DOM elements when the DOM is ready but before any images are loaded.

Native browser solutions are available for detecting that the DOM is ready, but they aren’t implemented uniformly across each browser. For instance, Firefox and Opera fire the `DOMContentLoaded` event. Internet Explorer requires a script tag to be placed in the document with a `defer` attribute, which fires when its DOM is ready. WebKit fires no event but sets the `document.readyState` property to complete, so a loop must be executed to check for that property and fire off a custom event to tell your code that the DOM is ready.

Ext JS achieves cross browser compatibility by detecting on which browser the code is executing and managing the detection of the DOM ready state, executing your code at just the right time.

`Ext.onReady` is a reference to `Ext.EventManager.onDocumentReady`.


```javascript
Ext.onReady(function() {

});
```

Ext.Element
===========

JavaScript’s access to the DOM nodes gives you the power and flexibility to perform any action against the DOM you wish. Such actions could include adding, deleting, styling, or changing the contents of any node in the document. The tradi- tional method to reference a DOM node by ID is as follows:

`var myDiv = document.getElementById('someDivId');`

The `getElementById` method lets you perform basic tasks such as changing the innerHTML or styling and assigning a CSS class. But what if you want to do more with the node, such as manage its events, apply a style on mouse click, or replace a single CSS class?


The `Ext.Element` class is the heart of Ext JS. It is a robust, cross browser, DOM element management suite. It plays a role in every UI widget and can be generally accessed by the `getEl` method or the `el` property. Each widget’s element can be accessed via the public `getEl` method or the private `el` property, but only after it’s been rendered.

To take advantage of `Ext.Element`, you need to set up a base page. Set up a page where you include the Ext JS and CSS.

`Ext.get` uses `document.getElementById` and wraps it with the Ext JS element management methods. Some of `Ext.Element`’s greatest power comes from its ease of use for full CRUD (create, read, update, and delete) of elements.

```js
var myDiv1 = Ext.get('div1'); 
myDiv1.setHeight(200);

myDiv1.createChild('Child from a string');

myDiv1.createChild({ 
	tag : 'div', 
	html : 'Child from a config object' 
});

myDiv1.createChild({ 
	tag : 'div', 
	html : 'Child from a config object' 
}, myDiv1.dom.childNodes[3]);

myDiv1.insertFirst({ 
	tag : 'div', 
	html : 'Child inserted as node 0 of myDiv1' 
});

var firstChild = myDiv1.down('div:first-child'); 
firstChild.remove();

var lastChild = myDiv1.down('div:last-child'); 
lastChild.remove();

Ext.get('child4').remove();

Ext.getBody().load({ 
	url : 'htmlFragment.html', 
	scripts : true 
});

```

The `Ext.Element.dom` property is the same DOM object reference that’s returned by `document.getElementById()`.

`Ext.getBody` is a convenient method to get a reference to the `document.body` wrapped by `Ext.Element`.

CSS selectors are a powerful way of querying the DOM for items. Ext JS supports the CSS3 selector specification

### Ext.Template

```js
var myTpl = Ext.create('Ext.Template' , "<div>Hello {0}.</div>"); 
myTpl.append(document.body, ['Marjan']);

var myTpl = Ext.create('Ext.XTemplate', [ 
	'<tpl for=".">', 
		'<div style="background-color: {color}; margin: 10px;">', 
			'<b> Name :</b> {name}<br />', 
			'<b> Age :</b> {age}<br />', 
			'<b> DOB :</b> {dob}<br />', 
		'</div>', 
	'</tpl>'
]);

myTpl.compile();
myTpl.append(document.body, tplData);

```



DateTime
========

### Ext.Date

`Y-m-d H:i:s`

`Ext.Date.format(new Date(), 'Y-m-d-H')`


`Ext.form.field.Time` & `Ext.form.field.Date`

`Ext.form.field.Time` is still an `Ext.form.field.Date` behind the scenes and the editor ignores the date part.

set the property `submitFormat: 'H:i'` & `timefield.getSubmitValue()`

`Ext.Date.parse("2016-02-28", "Y-m-d");`

`var midnight = Ext.Date.clearTime(new Date());`

`Ext.Date.add(midnight, Ext.Date.HOUR, h);`


