---
layout: post
title: REST
category: java
---


HTTP is the Platform
--------------------

REST has quickly become the de-facto standard for building web services on the web because they’re easy to build and easy to consume.

REST embraces the precepts of the web itself, and embraces its architecture, benefits and all:

> the notion that the web is an existence proof of a massively scalable distributed system that works really well, and we can take ideas from that to build integrated systems more easily.

Principally all those that come for free with HTTP as a platform itself. Application __security__ (encryption and authentication) are known quantities today for which there are known solutions. __Caching__ is built into the protocol. Service __routing__, through DNS, is a resilient and well-known system already ubiquitously support.



Maturity Model
--------------

REST, however ubiquitous, is not a standard, _per se_, but an approach, a style, a constraint on the HTTP protocol. Its implementation may vary in style, approach. As an API consumer this can be a frustrating experience. The quality of REST services varies wildly.

### Level 0: Transport

At this level, we’re just using HTTP as a transport. You could call SOAP a Level 0 technology. It uses HTTP, but as a transport.

### Level 1: Resources

At this level, a service might use HTTP URIs to distinguish between nouns, or entities, in the system. For example, you might route requests to /customers, /users, etc. XML-RPC is an example of a Level 1 technology: it uses HTTP, and it can use URIs to distinguish endpoints. Ultimately, though, XML-RPC is not RESTful: it’s using HTTP as a transport for something else (remote procedure calls).

### Level 2: HTTP Verbs

At this level, services take advantage of native HTTP qualities like headers, status codes, distinct URIs, and more. This is the level you want to be at.

### Level 3: Hypermedia

Hypermedia, as practiced using the [HATEOAS] ("HATEOAS" is a truly welcome acronym for the mouthful, "Hypermedia as the Engine of Application State") design pattern. Hypermedia promotes service longevity by decoupling the consumer of a service from intimate knowledge of that service’s surface area and topology. It describes REST services. The service can answer questions about what to call, and when. 

---

REST does not prescribe a representation or encoding. REST, short for Representational STate Transfer, defers to HTTP’s content-negotiation mechanism to let clients and services agree upon a mutually understood representation of data coming from a service, if possible. There are many ways to handle content negotiation, but in the simplest case, a client sends a request with an Accept header that specifies a comma-delimited list of acceptable mime types (for example: Accept: application/json, application/xml, /). If the service can produce any of those mime types, it responds with a representation in the first understood mime type.

*[per se]: 本身
[HATEOAS]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HATEOAS "Hypermedia as the Engine of Application State"